Add ld2450 document (#3327)
OttoWinter/esphomedocs: components/sensor/ld2450.rst

    - **target_count** (*Optional*, int): Total targets detected in the zone, whether they are stationary or in motion.
      All options from :ref:`Sensor <config-sensor>`.
    - **still_target_count** (*Optional*, int): Count of stationary targets in the zone. All options from
      :ref:`Sensor <config-sensor>`.
    - **moving_target_count** (*Optional*, int): Count of moving targets in the zone. All options from
      :ref:`Sensor <config-sensor>`.

.. _ld2450-switch:

Switch
------

The ``ld2450`` switch allows you to control your :doc:`ld2450` ``Bluetooth`` and ``Multi/Single Target Tracking``.

.. code-block:: yaml

    switch:
      - platform: ld2450
        ld2450_id: ld2450_radar
        bluetooth:
          name: "Bluetooth"
        multi_target:
          name: "Multi Target Tracking"

.. _ld2450-engineering-mode:

Configuration variables:
************************

- **ld2450_id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID for the :doc:`ld2450` component if you are
  using multiple components.
- **bluetooth** (*Optional*): Turn on/off the bluetooth adapter. Defaults to ``true``. All options from
  :ref:`Switch <config-switch>`.

> - **multi_target** (*Optional*): Turn on/off the Multi Target Tracking option. All options from

Reviewer: **multi_target** defaults to ``false``

Reviewer 2: Nope, it's read from the device at start-up so its state will depend on how it's set on the LD2450. IIRC, the LD2450's factory default has it set to "on", but the state is stored so it will be recalled after each reset or power-cycle.

Reviewer: Yes, you are correct. Apologies for not fully understanding the LD2450 specs.
However: this integration does not show (after factory reset) status: multi-target ON.
This happens (after factory reset, change in status multi-target to ON) after activating the mobile app connection to the sensor.
Is this perhaps a glitch in the integration code?

Reviewer 2: Hmm, on the [bottom of page 9](https://make.net.za/wp-content/datasheets/HLK%20LD2450%20Serial%20Communication%20Protocol%20v1.03.pdf?srsltid=AfmBOor1m5z_I4GcYxlnqr5CAfEbDZlAn6-80BnC9HMDLzw4vO6Ob-Bj) it's indicated that multi-tracking is enabled by default.

Reviewer: After _Factory Reset_, not only multi-target does not report back to default ON.
Also zone details like Zone Type (disabled) and Zone X and Y values (0 mm) do not report these default settings.

A _Restart_ after _Factory Reset_ does not report default settings either.
Also powercycle of the sensor does not solve this.

These values are updated correctly to default settings when:
-powercycle the ESP32 or
-the mobile app connects to the sensor.

Hope this testinformation provide some insights.

Reviewer 2: Hmm, that's not my experience at all, @WiebKastanje. When I factory reset the **LD2450,** the settings revert to the radar's defaults as documented.

Are you factory resetting the **ESP** or the **LD2450**? These are different things.

Factory resetting the ESP does not impact the radar settings, as they are stored on the radar module itself and retrieved from it when the ESP boots. That would explain why you are not seeing the settings revert to their defaults.

When you factory reset the radar module--whether via Bluetooth using the app or using the method provided in the ESPHome component--the settings will not be reflected in ESPHome/HA until the ESP is rebooted, as it only queries the module at startup and settings are not sent from the module to the ESP immediately following a factory reset. This is expected behavior and there's not a way to change this -- it's just how the LD2450 radar module works.

LD2450 Sensor
=============

.. seo::
    :description: Instructions for setting up LD2450 sensors.
    :image: ld2450.png

Component
---------
.. _ld2450-component:

> The ``ld2450`` component allows you to use `HLK-LD2450 <https://www.hlktech.net/index.php?id=1157>`__ human presence and motion detection and tracking radar module with ESPHome.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The ``ld2450`` component allows you to use the `HLK-LD2450 <https://www.hlktech.net/index.php?id=1157>`__ human presence, motion detection and tracking radar module with ESPHome.
```

`HLK-LD2450 Official Datasheet and user manuals <https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1aItrdziwnEqI-ovDWf24Lj6ioALaljFA?usp=sharing>`__

> Motion target tracking involves real-time tracking of the position of a moving target within a specific area, enabling distance, angle, and speed measurements of the target. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Target tracking involves real-time tracking of the position of a (moving) target within a specific area, enabling measurement of the target's distance, angle and speed (relative to the sensor).
```

The LD2450 is a sensor module for motion target tracking within the Hi-link 24G millimeter-wave radar series. This module features simplified 24 GHz radar sensor hardware and intelligent algorithm firmware.

> It is is mainly used in general indoor scenarios such as homes, offices and hotels to enable the location tracking of moving human targets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's primarily intended for use indoors to enable the location tracking of moving human targets.
```

.. _ld2450-mobile-apps:

`HLKRadarTool Android App <https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.hlk.hlkradartool>`__

`HLKRadarTool iOS App <https://apps.apple.com/us/app/hlkradartool/id1638651152>`__

.. note::

    Ensure that the LD2450 firmware version is ``V2.02.23090617`` or later for proper integration functionality. You can use the :ref:`HLKRadarTool mobile app<ld2450-mobile-apps>` to update the firmware.

.. figure:: images/ld2450.png
    :align: center
    :width: 50.0%

    HLK-LD2450 radar module

The :ref:`UART <uart>` is required to be set up in your configuration for this sensor to work, ``parity`` and ``stop_bits`` **must be** respectively ``NONE`` and ``1``.
Use of hardware UART pins is highly recommended, in order to support the out-of-the-box 256000 baud rate of the LD2450 sensor.

> .. code-block:: yaml
> 
>     # uart configuration
>     uart:
>       id: uart_ld2450
>       tx_pin: 17
>       rx_pin: 21
>       baud_rate: 256000
>       parity: NONE
>       stop_bits: 1
> 

Reviewer 2: We do not include requisite component configuration in examples.

```suggestion
```

.. code-block:: yaml

    # ld2450 configuration
    ld2450:
      id: ld2450_radar

>       uart_id: uart_ld2450

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

      throttle: 1000ms

Configuration variables:
************************

> - **id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID for this :doc:`ld2450` component if you need multiple components.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID for this :doc:`ld2450` component.
```

> - **uart_id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID of the :ref:`UART Component <uart>` if you want
>   to use multiple UART buses.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **uart_id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID of the :ref:`UART Component <uart>` to use.
  Required if you have multiple UARTs configured.
```

- **throttle** (*Optional*, int): Time in milliseconds to control the rate of data updates. Defaults to ``1000ms``.

.. _ld2450-binary-sensors:

Binary Sensor
-------------

The ``ld2450`` binary sensor offers presence states for the targets.

.. code-block:: yaml

    binary_sensor:
      - platform: ld2450
        ld2450_id: ld2450_radar
        has_target:
          name: Presence
        has_moving_target:
          name: Moving Target
        has_still_target:
          name: Still Target

Configuration variables:
************************

> - **ld2450_id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID for the :doc:`ld2450` component if you are using multiple components.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **ld2450_id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID for the :doc:`ld2450` component.
```

          distance:
            name: Target-2 Distance
          resolution:
            name: Target-2 Resolution
        target_3:
          x:
            name: Target-3 X
          y:
            name: Target-3 Y
          speed:
            name: Target-3 Speed
          angle:
            name: Target-3 Angle
          distance:
            name: Target-3 Distance
          resolution:
            name: Target-3 Resolution
        zone_1:
          target_count:
            name: Zone-1 All Target Count
          still_target_count:
            name: Zone-1 Still Target Count
          moving_target_count:
            name: Zone-1 Moving Target Count
        zone_2:
          target_count:
            name: Zone-2 All Target Count
          still_target_count:
            name: Zone-2 Still Target Count
          moving_target_count:
            name: Zone-2 Moving Target Count
        zone_3:
          target_count:
            name: Zone-3 All Target Count
          still_target_count:
            name: Zone-3 Still Target Count
          moving_target_count:
            name: Zone-3 Moving Target Count

Configuration variables:
************************

> - **ld2450_id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID for the :doc:`ld2450` component if you are using multiple components.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **ld2450_id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID for the :doc:`ld2450` component.
```

> - **target_count** (*Optional*, int): Total targets detected, whether they are stationary or in motion..

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **target_count** (*Optional*, int): Total targets detected, whether they are stationary or in motion.
```

    - **y** (*Optional*, int): Distance in ``millimeter (mm)`` of the target from the ``ld2450`` sensor in the Y direction (near/far). The ``ld2450`` module can detect targets from 0 to 6000 mm in ``Y`` direction.
      All options from :ref:`Sensor <config-sensor>`.
    - **speed** (*Optional*, int): Speed of the moving target in ``mm/s``.
      All options from :ref:`Sensor <config-sensor>`.
    - **angle** (*Optional*, int): Angle of target in ``degrees (°)`` relative to the ``ld2450`` sensor.
      All options from :ref:`Sensor <config-sensor>`.
    - **distance** (*Optional*, int): Distance in ``millimeter (mm)`` of the target from the ``ld2450`` sensor along the X-axis (negative for left side of the sensor, positive for right side of the sensor).
      All options from :ref:`Sensor <config-sensor>`.
    - **resolution** (*Optional*, int): The ``ld2450`` target detection range resolution in ``millimeter (mm)``.
      All options from :ref:`Sensor <config-sensor>`.

- **zone_N** (*Optional*): Target count details in the defined :ref:`zones<ld2450-number>` (N = 1 to 3). A maximum of 3 zones: ``zone_1``, ``zone_2``, ``zone_3``.

>     - **target_count** (*Optional*, int): Total targets detected in the zone, whether they are stationary or in motion..

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **target_count** (*Optional*, int): Total targets detected in the zone, whether they are stationary or in motion.
```

- **bluetooth** (*Optional*): Turn on/off the bluetooth adapter. Defaults to ``true``.
  All options from :ref:`Switch <config-switch>`.
- **multi_target** (*Optional*): Turn on/off the Multi Target Tracking option.
  All options from :ref:`Switch <config-switch>`.

.. _ld2450-number:

Number
------

The ``ld2450`` number allows you to control the presence timeout and zone area configuration of your :doc:`ld2450`.

.. code-block:: yaml

    number:
      - platform: ld2450
        ld2450_id: ld2450_radar
        presence_timeout:
          name: "Timeout"
        zone_1:
          x1:
            name: Zone-1 X1
          y1:
            name: Zone-1 Y1
          x2:
            name: Zone-1 X2
          y2:
            name: Zone-1 Y2
        zone_2:
          x1:
            name: Zone-2 X1
          y1:
            name: Zone-2 Y1
          x2:
            name: Zone-2 X2
          y2:
            name: Zone-2 Y2
        zone_3:
          x1:
            name: Zone-3 X1
          y1:
            name: Zone-3 Y1
          x2:
            name: Zone-3 X2
          y2:
            name: Zone-3 Y2

Configuration variables:
************************

> - **ld2450_id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID for the :doc:`ld2450` component if you are using multiple components.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **ld2450_id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID for the :doc:`ld2450` component.
```

      All options from :ref:`Number <config-number>`.
    - **y1** (*Optional*, int): Start Y coordinate in ``millimeter (mm)`` of the zone from the ``ld2450`` sensor along the Y-axis, values range from 0 to 6000.
      All options from :ref:`Sensor <config-sensor>`.
    - **x2** (*Optional*, int): End X coordinate in ``millimeter (mm)`` of the zone from the ``ld2450`` sensor along the X-axis (negative for left side (-3000) of the sensor, positive for right side (3000) of the sensor).
      All options from :ref:`Number <config-number>`.
    - **y1** (*Optional*, int): Start Y coordinate in ``millimeter (mm)`` of the zone from the ``ld2450`` sensor along the Y-axis, values range from 0 to 6000.
      All options from :ref:`Sensor <config-sensor>`.

Button
------

The ``ld2450`` button allows you to perfrom ``restart`` and ``factory reset`` actions on your :doc:`ld2450`.

.. code-block:: yaml

    button:
      - platform: ld2450
        ld2450_id: ld2450_radar
        factory_reset:
          name: "LD2450 Factory Reset"
        restart:
          name: "LD2450 Restart"

Configuration variables:
************************

> - **ld2450_id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID for the :doc:`ld2450` component if you are using multiple components.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **ld2450_id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID for the :doc:`ld2450` component.
```

> - **factory_reset** (*Optional*): "This command is used to reset the ``ld2450`` to its default values."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **factory_reset** (*Optional*): Resets the ``ld2450`` to its factory default configuration/values.
```

  All options from :ref:`Button <config-button>`.
- **restart** (*Optional*): Restart the ``ld2450`` device.
  All options from :ref:`Button <config-button>`.

Text Sensor
-----------

The ``ld2450`` text sensor allows you to get information about your :doc:`ld2450`.

.. code-block:: yaml

    text_sensor:
      - platform: ld2450
        ld2450_id: ld2450_radar
        version:
          name: "LD2450 Firmware"
        mac_address:
          name: "LD2450 BT MAC"
        target_1:
          direction:
            name: "Target-1 Direction"
        target_2:
          direction:
            name: "Target-2 Direction"
        target_3:
          direction:
            name: "Target-3 Direction"

Configuration variables:
************************

> - **ld2450_id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID for the :doc:`ld2450` component if you are using multiple components.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

- **ld2450_id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID for the :doc:`ld2450` component.
```

- **version** (*Optional*): The ``ld2450`` firmware version.
  All options from :ref:`Text Sensor <config-text_sensor>`.

> - **mac_address** (*Optional*): The ``ld2450`` Bluetooth mac address.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **mac_address** (*Optional*): The ``ld2450`` Bluetooth MAC address.
```

  All options from :ref:`Text Sensor <config-text_sensor>`.
- **target_N** (*Optional*): Targets (N = 1 to 3). A maximum of 3 targets can be detected: ``target_1``, ``target_2``, ``target_3``.

>     - **direction** (*Optional*): Direction of the target relative to the ``ld2450`` sensor. Possible values are: ``Stationary``, ``Moving away``, ``Coming closer``, ``NA``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **direction** (*Optional*): Direction of the target relative to the ``ld2450`` sensor. Possible values are: ``Stationary``, ``Moving away``, ``Approaching``, ``NA``.
```

      All options from :ref:`Sensor <config-sensor>`.

Select

> -----------

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
------
```

The ``ld2450`` select allows you to control ``baud rate`` and ``zone type`` of your :doc:`ld2450`.

.. code-block:: yaml

    select:
      - platform: ld2450
        ld2450_id: ld2450_radar
        baud_rate:
          name: "Baud rate"
        zone_type:
          name: "Zone Type"

.. _ld2450-light-function:

Configuration variables:
************************

> - **ld2450_id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID for the :doc:`ld2450` component if you are using multiple components.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **ld2450_id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID for the :doc:`ld2450` component.
```

- **baud_rate** (*Optional*): Control the UART serial port baud rate. Defaults to ``256000``.
  Once changed, all sensors will stop working until a fresh install with an updated :ref:`UART Component <uart>` configuration.
  All options from :ref:`Select <config-select>`.
- **zone_type** (*Optional*): Control the Zone detection modes. It can be set to ``Disabled``, ``Detection``, or ``Filter``. Selecting the ``Disabled`` option will disable zone area detection. ``Detection`` mode is used to detect only targets in the specified area, while ``Filter`` mode can be used to exclude an area from detection.
  All options from :ref:`Select <config-select>`.

Example configuration:
----------------------

Here is the complete example configuration for :doc:`ld2450`.

.. code-block:: yaml

    esphome:
      name: ld2540-radar
      friendly_name: ld2540-radar

    esp32:
      board: wemos_d1_mini32

>     improv_serial:
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

    logger:

>     debug:
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

    api:

>     ota:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ota:
      - platform: esphome
```

    wifi:
      ap:

>     captive_portal:
> 
>     web_server:
>       port: 80
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

    uart:
      id: uart_ld2450

>       tx_pin: 17
>       rx_pin: 21

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      tx_pin: GPIOXX
      rx_pin: GPIOXX
```
